Created MOOSE Meshing Tutorial documentation (#24041)
idaholab/moose: tutorials/tutorial04_meshing/doc/content/getting_started/examples_and_tutorials/tutorial04_meshing/presentation/tutorial04_step07_extra_element_ids.md

# Reporting IDs: A Powerful Feature for Assisting with Physics Input and Output Processing

!---

> 
> When using an unstructured finite element mesh format for reactor analysis, it can be challenging to identify which individual elements belong to each geometric component, which is necessary for assigning properties and for extracting integral quantities from the output solution. The block ID (also called subdomain ID) has been used in the past for bookkeeping of elements, which requires each bookkeeping region to have a different block ID. If there are multiple hierarchical levels in geometries (e.g., pin, assembly), block ID is not sufficient to track all the associations of a given element association. Additionally, using an excessive number of blocks in a mesh can cause performance degradation in MOOSE compared to using only a few blocks. Reporting IDs were introduced as a practical solution to this bookkeeping issue.  Reporting IDs are extra integer ID tags assigned on each element which designate association with a specific reactor component or zone, such as pin ID or assembly ID. Multiple reporting IDs may be assigned on each element to track different information (e.g., pin number, assembly number, plane number).
> 
> The automatic assignment of reporting IDs to elements in a mesh is provided through several mesh generators, as described in the following sections. Collections of elements forming pins and assemblies are identifiable without providing information about their physical location since the mesh generators themselves understand the concept of pins and assemblies.
> 
> Reporting IDs can be leveraged to post-process solution data into tables by using the [ExtraIDIntegralVectorPostprocessor.md]. This postprocessor integrates the solution based on reporting IDs. Component-wise values such as pin-by-pin power distribution can be easily yielded by specifying integration over pin and assembly reporting IDs to this postprocessor.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Why do we need Reporting IDs? 

- In reactor simulations, we want to bookkeep the individual elements belonging to each geometric component
  - Assign material properties to the mesh in different regions
  - Extract integral quantities from the solution in different regions
- Using numerous block IDs just to differentiate regions is not practical or sufficient
  - Using excessive blocks can cause performance degradation in MOOSE
  - Multiple hierarchical levels in geometries (e.g., pin, assembly) cannot be represented with blocks
- Reporting IDs were introduced as a practical solution to this bookkeeping issue

!---
## What are Reporting IDs?

- Reporting IDs are extra integer ID tags assigned on each element of the mesh
  - A reporting ID consists of a name (e.g. pin_id, assembly_id) and an assigned value (e.g. 1, 2, 3...)
  - A reporting ID designates association with a specific reactor component or zone, such as pin ID or assembly ID
  - An element may have multiple reporting IDs to track different information (e.g., pin number, assembly number, plane number).

- How do we get reporting IDs on mesh elements?
  - The automatic assignment of reporting IDs to elements in a mesh is provided through several mesh generators that "understand" the concept of pins, assemblies, planes, etc. 
  - There is no need to provide physical locations or coordinates of elements in order to assign IDs
 
- How can we use reporting IDs? 
  - Reporting IDs can be used to assign material properties
  - Reporting IDs can be used to create additional unique zones (e.g. depletion zones)
  - Reporting IDs can be leveraged to post-process solution data into tables by using the [ExtraIDIntegralVectorPostprocessor.md]. This postprocessor integrates the solution based on reporting IDs. Component-wise values such as pin-by-pin power distribution can be easily yielded by specifying integration over pin and assembly reporting IDs to this postprocessor.

```

Reviewer: @yjung-anl  - please review

  - `cell` (default): Assign unique IDs for each component in the lattice in sequential order (begins at 0 in the top left corner of the pattern).
  - `pattern`: assign a different ID for each unique input component
  - `manual`: use a manual numbering scheme provided by user
- When assembly duct regions are present, these regions are numbered sequentially starting from the inner-most region to the outer-most region.

- Pin and Assembly IDs are applied during creations of assemblies and core, respectively.

!---

### Cell Pattern Example

!row!
!col small=12 medium=6 large=8

!media tutorial04_meshing/eeid_cart_hex_examples.png
       style=width:100%;display:block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;

!col small=12 medium=6 large=4

!listing modules/reactor/test/tests/meshgenerators/reporting_id/cartesian_id/patterned_cartesian_core_reporting_id.i
         block=Mesh
         link=False

!row-end!

!---

### Alternative Pattern Example

- Supports other numbering schemes:

  - [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/assign_type) = `pattern`: Assign IDs based on the ID of the input file component as listed in the pattern

>   - [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/assign_type) = `manual`: Assign IDs based on a user-defined mapping defined in an array [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/id_pattern)

Author: @roystgnr would this help clarify?
```
- [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/assign_type) = `pattern`: Assign IDs identical to the already-provided [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/pattern) array
- [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/assign_type) = `manual`: Assign IDs based on a user-defined mapping in the optional [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/id_pattern) array, which may differ from the required [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/pattern) array
```

>   - [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/assign_type) = `manual`: Assign IDs based on a user-defined mapping defined in an array [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/id_pattern)

Reviewer 2: Oh, yeah, that makes it obvious.  (to me, at least; hopefully you won't other users who are *even more* easily confused)
